---
title: Day41
date: 2026-01-12
tags:
---

I wrote about stabilizing your nervous system in one of commute logs.

The idea is that when you are at a low point of your life in terms of energy and productivity level, the first step is to stabilize your nervous system.

If you find you have lost trust on yourself, no motivation, low self-esteem, always lying down on bed, always sleepy even after hours of sleep, no drive to achieve yours goals in life, anxiety, indulging in unhealthy and sinful activities to cope with your stress, then the first step is not to add more load onto your nervous system.

Examples of loading more on your nervous system are reading self help books, looking for another motivational video, asking chatGPT more questions, having a goal.. you get what I mean.

so instead of doing that you need to stabilize your nervous system first by doing this three things every day:

1. Walk 20 minutes in the morning 
2. Create buffer time before you indulge in you bad habits.
3. Do one thing that gives you self-respect. Example: clean up your bed, read one page of your religious text, clear the trash, etc. But pick one only.

You do those three till those activities feel normal, boring, and no longer feel like "a program."

Usually it takes about 2 to 3 months, but againits not the specific time but the experience that you feel.

Also when I said daily it doesn't mean every day without fail, zero slips or perfect execution.

what I mean is those three things become your default return point. When you fall off, you come back without drama, and they feel supportive instead of effortful.